Magic-users employ a greater variety of material components than do other character classes employing spells, i.e. clerics and druids. Some of the required components will be difficult to find and/or expensive, but alternative spells can always be chosen.

The relatively short casting time for those spells with a material component assumes that the magic-user has decided upon which spell he or she will employ, and the material or materials needed are at hand in the numerous pockets and folds of the magic-user's garb. If this is not the case, there will be a delay commensurate to the situation. It has been recommended to the referee that actual time relate to the game time in such situations if at all possible. If it takes 6 seconds to decide on which spell to cast, 1 segment of the round is gone. Having to search through a pack to locate some component is as good as wasting 5 segments - 30 seconds.

Substitute materials might be allowed. This is up to your Dungeon Master. It should be noted that such substitution could affect spell range, duration, area of effect, effect, etc.

In general, reversible or multiple application spells require the magic-user to determine which form he or she is memorizing prior to the adventure. Consult your referee in this regard.

First Level Spells:

Affect Normal Fires (Alteration)
Level: 1	Components: V, S	Range: ½"/level	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: 1 round/level	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: 1' diameter fire 
Explanation/Description: This spell enables the magic-user to cause small fires - from as small as a torch or lantern to as large as a normal bonfire of 3' maximum diameter - to reduce in size and light to become match-like or increase in light so as to become as bright as a light spell. Reducing the fire will cut fuel consumption to half normal, and increasing the fire will double consumption. Note that heat output is not altered in either case!
 
Burning Hands (Alteration)
Level: 1	Components: V, S	Range: 0	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: 1 round	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: Special
Explanation/Description: When the magic-user casts this spell, jets of searing flame shoot from his or her fingertips. Hands can only be held so
as to send forth a fan-like sheet of flames, as the magic-user's thumbs must touch each other and fingers must be spread. The burning hands send out flame jets of 3' length in a horizontal arc of about 120° in front of the magic-user. Any creature in the area of flames takes 1 hit point of damage for each level of experience of the spellcaster, and no saving throw is possible. Inflammable materials touched by the fire will burn, i.e. cloth, paper, parchment, thin wood, etc.
 
Charm Person (Enchantment/Charm)
Level: 1	Components: V, S	Range: 12"	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: Special	Saving Throw: Neg.	Area of Effect: One person
Explanation/Description: Except as shown above, this spell is the same as the second level druid spell, Charm Person Or Mammal (q.v.), but the magic-user can charm only persons, i.e. brownies, dwarves, elves, gnolls, gnomes, goblins, half-elves, halflings, half-orcs, hobgoblins, humans, kobolds, lizard men, nixies, orcs, pixies, sprites, and troglodytes. All other comments regarding spell effects apply with respect to persons.
 
Comprehend Languages (Alteration)
Level: 1	Components: V, S, M	Range: Touch	Casting Time: 1 round	Duration: 5 rounds/level	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: One written object or speaking creature
Explanation/Description: When this spell is cast, the magic-user is able to read an otherwise incomprehensible written message such as a treasure map (but not a magical writing, other than to know it is "magic") or understand the language of a speaking creature. In either case, the magic-user must touch the object to be read or the creature to be understood, and the spell does not enable the spell caster to write or speak the language. The material components of this spell are a pinch of soot and a few grains of salt. The reverse, Confuse Languages, prevents comprehension or cancels a Comprehend Languages spell.
 
Dancing Lights (Alteration)
Level: 1	Components: V, S, M	Range: 4" + 1"/level	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: 2 rounds/level	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: Special
Explanation/Description: When a dancing lights spell is cast, the magic-user creates, at his or her option, from 1 to 4 lights which resemble either A) torches and/or lanterns (and cast that amount of light), B) glowing spheres of light (such as evidenced by will-o-wisps), or C) one faintly glowing, vaguely man-like shape, somewhat similar to that of a creature from the Elemental Plane of Fire. The Dancing Lights move as the spell caster desires, forward or back, straight or turning corners, without concentration upon such movement by the magic-user. The spell will wink out if the range or duration is exceeded. Range is a base of 4" plus 1" for each level of the magic-user who cast the spell. Duration is 2 melee rounds per level of the spell caster . The material component of this spell is either a bit of phosphorus or wytchwood or a glowworm.
 
Detect Magic (Divination)
Level: 1	Components: V, S	Range: 0	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: 2 rounds/level	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: 1" path, 6" long
Explanation/Description: The only differences between this spell and the first level cleric Detect Magic spell are noted above (duration, area of effect, and no material component)
 
Enlarge (Alteration) Reversible
Level: 1	Components: V, S, M	Range: ½"/level	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: 1 turn/level	Saving Throw: Neg.	Area of Effect: Special 
Explanation/Description: This spell causes instant growth of a creature or object. Enlargement causes increase in both size and weight. It can be cast upon only a single creature or object. Spell range is ½" for each level of experience of the magic-user, and its duration is 1 turn per level of power experience of the spell caster . The effect of the enlargement spell is to increase the size of a living creature (or a symbiotic or community entity) by 20% per level of experience of the magic-user, with a maximum additional growth of 200%. The effect on objects is one-half that of creatures, i.e. 10% per level to a 100% maximum additional enlargement. The creature or object must be seen in order to effect the spell. The maximum volume of living material which can be initially affected is 10 cubic feet - for non-living matter, 5 cubic feet - per level of the magic-user. While magical properties are not increased by this spell - a huge +1 sword is still only +1, a staff-sized wand is still only capable of its normal functions, a giant-sized potion merely requires a greater fluid intake to make its magical effects operate, etc. - weight, mass and strength are. Thus, a table blocking a door would be heavier and more effective; a hurled stone would have more mass (and be more hurtful providing enlargement took place just prior to impact): chains would be more massive; doors thicker; a thin line turned to a sizable, longer rope; and so on. Likewise, a person 12' tall would be as an ogre, while an 18' tall person would actually be a giant for the duration of the spell. The reverse spell, Reduce, will negate the effects or actually make creatures or objects smaller in the tame ratios as the regular spell application functions. Unwilling victims of the spell. or its reverse, are entitled to a saving throw, which, if successful, indicates the magic does not function, and the spell is wasted. The material component of this spell is a pinch of powdered iron. 
 
Erase (Alteration)
Level: 1	Components: V, S	Range: 3"	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: Permanent	Saving Throw: Neg.	Area of Effect: One scroll or two facing pages
Explanation/Description: The Erase spell removes writings of either magical or mundane nature from a scroll or one or two pages or sheets of paper, parchment or similar surfaces. It will not remove Explosive Runes or a Symbol (see these spells hereafter), however. There is a basic chance of 50%, plus 2% per level of experience of the spell caster with respect to magical writings, plus 4% per level for mundane writing, that the spell will take effect. This represents the saving throw, and any percentile dice score in excess of the adjusted percentage chance means the spell fails.
 
Feather Fall (Alteration)
Level: 1	Components: V, M	Range: 1"/level	Casting Time: 1/10 segment	Duration: 1 segment/level	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: Special
Explanation/Description: When this spell is cast, the creature(s) or object(s) affected immediately assumes the mass of a feathery piece of down. Rate of falling is thus instantly changed to a mere constant 2' per second or 12' per segment, and no damage is incurred when landing when the spell is in effect. However, when the spell duration ceases, normal rate of fall occurs. The spell can be cast upon the magic-user or some other creature or object up to the maximum range of 1" per level of experience of the spell caster. it lasts for 1 segment for each level of the magic-user. The Feather Fall affects an area of 1 cubic inch, and the maximum weight of creatures and/or objects cannot exceed a combined total equal to a base 2,000 gold pieces weight plus 2,000 gold pieces weight per level of the spell caster. Example: a 2nd level magic-user has a range of 2", a duration of 2 segments, a weight maximum of 6,000 gold pieces (600 pounds) when employing the spell. The spell works only upon free-falling or propelled objects. It will not affect a sword blow or a charging creature, but it will affect a missile. The material component is a small feather or a piece of down somewhere on the person of the spell caster.
 
Find Familiar (Conjuration/Summoning)
Level: 1	Components: V, S, M	Range: 1 mile/level	Casting Time: 1-24 hours	Duration: 1 turn/level	Saving Throw: Neg.	Area of Effect: As spell range
Explanation/Description: A familiar is of certain benefit to a magic-user, as the creature adds to the spell caster's hit points, it conveys its sensory powers to its master, and it can converse with and will serve as a guard/scout/spy as well. However, the magic-user has no control over what sort of creature will answer the summoning, or if any at all will come, and the power of the conjuration is such that it can be attempted but once per year. At such time as the magic-user determines to find a familiar, he or she must stoke up a brass brazier with charcoal, and when this is burning well, add 100 g.p. worth of incense, herbs (basil, savoury, and catnip for sure), and fat. When these items are burning. the spell caster begins his or her incantation, and it must be continued until the familiar comes or the casting time is finished. Your referee will secretly determine all results. The magic-user has absolutely no control over what sort of a creature appears to become his or her familiar. This will be determined on the table below:
Die Roll (d20)	Familiar	Sensory Powers
1-4 	cat, black	excellent night vision & superior hearing
5-6	crow	excellent vision
7-8	hawk 	very superior distance vision
9-10	owl, screech 	night vision equals human daylight visual ability, superior hearing
11-12	toad 	wide angle vision
13-14	weasel 	superior hearing & very superior olfactory power
15	special - see sub-table below for details
16-20* 	no familiar available within spell range
* Subtract 1 from the die score for each 3 levels of experience of the spell caster, and if the score is 15 or less roll again using d16, and if a 16 is rolled then the result is final. 
If a score of 15 is rolled, use the table below for a special familiar:

Alignment of Magic-User	Result of Special Familiar
chaotic evil or neutral chaotic	quasit (see AD&D, MONSTER MANUAL)
chaotic good, neutral, or neutral good	pseudo-dragon (see AD&D, MONSTER MANUAL)
lawful neutral or lawful good 	brownie (see AD&D. MONSTER MANUAL)
lawful evil or neutral evil	imp (see AD&D, MONSTER MANUAL)
Normal familiars have 2-4 hit points and armour class of 7 (due to size, speed, etc.). Each is abnormally intelligent and totally faithful to the magic-user whose familiar it becomes. The number of the familiar's hit points is added to the hit point total of the magic-user when it is within 12" of its master, but if the familiar should ever be killed, the magic-user will permanently lose double that number of hit points.

If a special familiar is indicated, details of the powers it conveys are given in ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, MONSTER MANUAL for all except the brownie. This creature becomes a friend and companion to the magic-user, and he or she will gain dexterity equal to the brownie's (18) and the advantage of never being surprised, as well as +2 on all saving throws. Note that special familiars are entitled to a saving throw versus magic when summoned by the spell, and if they succeed, they will ignore the spell, and NO familiar will be available that year to the caster.

A familiar will fight for the life of the magic-user it serves only in a life-and-death situation, and imps and quasits will be 90% likely not to do so at the risk of their own life.

 
Friends (Enchantment/Charm)
Level: 1	Components: V, S, M	Range: 0	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: 1 round / level	Saving Throw: Special	Area of Effect: 1" + 1" / level of spell caster radius sphere
Explanation/Description: A Friends spell causes the magic-user to gain a temporary increase of 2-8 points in charisma - or a temporary lowering of charisma by 1-4 points - depending on whether creatures within the area of effect of the spell make - or fail - their saving throw versus magic. Those that fail their saving throw will be very impressed with the spell caster and desire greatly to be his or her friend and help. Those that do not fail will be uneasy in the spell caster's presence and tend to find him or her irritating. Note that this spell has absolutely no effect on creatures of animal intelligence or lower. The components for this spell are chalk (or white flour), lampblack (or soot), and vermilion applied to the face before casting the spell.
 
Hold Portal (Alteration)
Level: 1	Components: V	Range: 2"/level	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: 1 round /level	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: 80 square feet/level
Explanation/Description: This spell magically bars a door, gate or valve of wood, metal or stone. The magical closure holds the portal fast just as if it were securely stopped and locked. The range of the spell is 2' per level of experience of the caster, and it lasts for 1 round per level. Note that any extra-dimensional creature (demon, devil, elemental, etc.) will shatter such a held portal. A magic-user of four or more experience levels higher than the spell caster can open the held portal at will. A Knock spell (q.v.) or Dispel Magic spell (q.v.) will negate the Hold Portal. Held portals can be broken or battered down.
 
Identify (Divination)
Level: 1	Components: V, S, M	Range: 0	Casting Time: 1 turn	Duration: 1 segment/level	Saving Throw: Special	Area of Effect: One item
Explanation/Description: When an Identify spell is cast, one item may be touched and handled by the magic-user in order that he or she may possibly find what dweomer it possesses. The item in question must be held or worn as would be normal for any such object. i.e. a bracelet must be placed on the spell caster's wrist, a helm on his or her head, boots on the feet, a cloak worn, a dagger held, and so on. Note that any consequences of this use of the item fall fully upon the magic-user, although any saving throw normally allowed is still the privilege of the magic-user. For each segment the spell is in force, it is 15% + 5% per level of the magic-user probable that 1 property of the object touched can become known - possibly that the item has no properties and is merely a ruse (the presence of Nystul's Magic Aura or a Magic Mouth being detected). Each time a property can be known, the referee will secretly roll to see if the magic-user made his or her saving throw versus magic. If the save was successful, the property is known; if it is 1 point short, a false power will be revealed; and if it is lower than 1 under the required score no information will be gained. The item will never reveal its exact plusses to hit or its damage bonuses, although the fact that it has few or many such plusses can be discovered. If it has charges, the object will never reveal the exact number, but it will give information which is +/-25% of actual i.e. a wand with 40 charges could feel as if it had 30, or 50, or any number in between. The item to be identified must be examined by the magic-user within 1 hour per level of experience of the examiner after it has been discovered, or all readable impressions will have been blended into those of the characters who have possessed it since. After casting the spell and determining what can be learned from it, the magic-user loses 8 points of constitution. He or she must rest for 6 turns per 1 point in order to regain them. If the 8 point loss drops the spell caster below a constitution of 3, he or she will fall unconscious, and consciousness will not be regained until full constitution is restored 24 hours later. The material components of this spell are a pearl (of at least 100g.p. value) and an owl feather steeped in wine, with the infusion drunk and a live miniature carp swallowed whole prior to spell casting. If a luckstone is powdered and added to the infusion, probability increases 25% and all saving throws are made at +4.
 
Jump (Alteration)
Level: 1	Components: V, S, M	Range: Touch	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: Special	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: Creature touched
Explanation/Description: When this spell is cast, the individual is empowered to leap up to 30' forward or 10' backward or straight upward. Horizontal leaps forward or backward are in only a slight arc - about 2'/10' of distance travelled. The Jump spell does not insure any safety in landing or grasping at the end of the leap. For every 3 additional levels of experience of the magic-user beyond the 1st, he or she is able to empower 1 additional leap, so a 4th level magic-user can cast a Jump spell which enables the recipient to make 2 leaps, 3 leaps at 7th level, etc. All leaps must be completed within 1 turn after the spell is cast, for after that period has elapsed the spell wears off. The material component of this spell is a grasshopper's hind leg, one for each leap, to be broken when the leap is made.
 
Light (Alteration)
Level: 1	Components: V, S	Range: 6"	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: 1 turn/level	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: 2" radius globe
Explanation/Description: With the exceptions noted above, this spell is the same as the first level cleric Light spell (q.v.).
 
Magic Missile (Evocation)
Level: 1	Components: V, S	Range: 6" + 1"/level	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: Special	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: One or more creatures in a 10 square foot area 
Explanation/Description: Use of the Magic Missile spell creates one or more magical missiles which dart forth from the magic-user's fingertip and unerringly strike their target. Each missile does 2 to 5 hit points (d4+1) of damage. If the magic-user has multiple missile capability, he or she can have them strike a single target creature or several creatures, as desired. For each level of experience of the magic-user, the range of his or her Magic Missile extends 1" beyond the 6" base range. For every 2 levels of experience, the magic-user gains an additional missile, i.e. 2 at 3rd level, 3 at 5th level, 4 at 7th level, etc.
 
Mending (Alteration)
Level: 1	Components: V, S, M	Range: 3"	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: Permanent	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: One object
Explanation/Description: This spell repairs small breaks in objects. It will weld a broken ring, chain link, medallion or slender dagger, providing but one break exists. Ceramic or wooden objects with multiple breaks can be invisibly rejoined to be as strong as new. A hole in a leather sack or wineskin is completely healed over by a mending spell. This spell will not repair magic items of any kind. The material components of this spell are two small magnets of any type (lodestone in all likelihood) or two burrs.
 
Message (Alteration)
Level: 1	Components: V, S, M	Range: 6" + 1"/level	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: 5 segments + 1 segment/level	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: 1/4" path
Explanation/Description: When this spell is cast, the magic-user can whisper a message and secretly, or openly, point his or her finger while so doing, and the whispered message will travel in a straight line and be audible to the creature pointed at. The message must fit spell duration, and if there is time remaining, the creature who received the message can whisper a reply and be heard by the spell caster. Note that there must be an open and unobstructed path between the spell caster and the recipient of the spell. The material component of the spell is a short piece of copper drawn fine.
 
Nystul's Magic Aura (Illusion/Phantasm)
Level: 1	Components: V, S, M	Range: Touch	Casting Time: 1 round	Duration: 1 day/level	Saving Throw: Special	Area of Effect: Special
Explanation/Description: By means of this spell any one item of a weight of 50 g.p. per level of experience of the spell caster can be given an aura which will be noticed if detection of magic is exercised upon the object. If the object bearing the Nystul's Magic Aura is actually held by the creature detecting for a dweomer, he, she or it is entitled to a saving throw versus magic, and if this throw is successful, the creature knows that the aura has been placed to mislead the unwary. Otherwise, the aura is simply magical, but no amount of testing will reveal what the magic is. The component for this spell is a small square of silk which must be passed over the object to bear the aura.
 
Protection From Evil (Abjuration) Reversible
Level: 1	Components: V, S, M	Range: Touch	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: 2 rounds / level	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: Creature touched
Explanation/Description: With the differences shown above, and the requirement of powdered iron and silver as the material components for tracing the magic circle for Protection From Evil, the spell is the same as the first level cleric Protection From Evil spell (q.v.). 
 
Push (Conjuration/Summoning)
Level: 1	Components: V, S, M	Range: 1" + 1/4"/level	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: Instantaneous	Saving Throw: Neg.	Area of Effect: Special 
Explanation/Description: Upon pronouncing the syllables of this spell, the magic-user causes an invisible force to strike against whatever object he or she is pointing at. The force of the Push is not great, being 1 foot- pound per level of the magic-user casting the spell, but it can move small objects up to 1' in a direction directly away from the caster, topple an object under the proper conditions, or cause a creature to lose its balance. An example of the latter use is causing a creature attacking to lose its balance when it is attacking, for if the creature fails its saving throw, it will not be able to attack that round. Of course, the mass of the creature attacking cannot exceed the force of the Push by more than a factor of 50, i.e. a 1st level magic-user cannot effectively push a creature weighing more than 50 pounds. A Push spell employed against an object held by a creature will cause it to subtract the force of the spell in foot- pounds (1,2,3, etc.) from its chance to hit or add to opponent saving throws as applicable if the creature fails to make its saving throw against magic when the spell is cast. The material component of this spell is a small pinch of powdered brass which must be blown from the palm prior to pointing at the object of the spell. 
 
Read Magic (Divination) Reversible
Level: 1	Components: V, S, M	Range: 0	Casting Time: 1 round	Duration: 2 rounds/level	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: Special
Explanation/Description: By means of a Read Magic spell, the magic-user is able to read magical inscriptions on objects - books, scrolls weapons and the like - which would otherwise be totally unintelligible to him or her. (The personal books of the magic-user, and works already magically read, are intelligible.) This deciphering does not normally invoke the magic contained in the writing, although it may do so in the case of a curse scroll. Furthermore, once the spell is cast and the magic-user has read the magical inscription, he or she is thereafter able to read that particular writing without recourse to the use of the Read Magic spell. The duration of the spell is 2 rounds per level of experience of the spell caster. The material component for the spell is a clear crystal or mineral prism. Note that the material is not expended by use. The reverse of the spell, Unreadable Magic, makes such writing completely unreadable to any creature, even with the aid of a Read Magic, until the spell wears off or the magic is dispelled. The material components for the reverse spell are a pinch of dirt and a drop of water.
 
Shield (Evocation)
Level: 1	Components: V, S	Range: 0	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: 5 rounds/level	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: Special
Explanation/Description: When this spell is cast, an invisible barrier before the front of the magic-user comes into being. This Shield will totally negate magic missile attacks. It provides the equivalent protection of armour class 2 against hand hurled missiles (axes, darts, javelins, spears, etc.), armour class 3 against small device-propelled missiles (arrows, bolts, bullets, manticore spikes, sling stones, etc.), and armour class 4 against all other forms of attack. The Shield also adds +1 to the magic-user's saving throw dice vs. attacks which are basically frontal. Note that all benefits of the spell accrue only to attacks originating from the front facing the magic-user, where the Shield can move to interpose itself properly.
 
Shocking Grasp (Alteration)
Level: 1	Components: V, S	Range: Touch	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: One touch	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: Creature touched
Explanation/Description: When the magic-user casts this spell, he or she develops a powerful electrical charge which gives a jolt to the creature touched. The Shocking Grasp delivers from 1 to 8 hit points damage (d8), plus 1 hit point per level of the magic-user, i.e. a 2nd level magic-user would discharge a shock causing 3 to 10 hit points of damage. While the magic-user must only come close enough to his or her opponent to lay a hand on the opponent's body or upon an electrical conductor which touches the opponent's body, a like touch from the opponent does not discharge the spell.
 
Sleep (Enchantment/Charm)
Level: 1	Components: V, S, M	Range: 3" + 1"/level	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: 5 rounds/level	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: Special
Explanation/Description: When a magic-user casts a Sleep spell, he or she will usually cause a comatose slumber to come upon one or more creatures [other than undead and certain other creatures specifically excluded (see ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS. MONSTER MANUAL) from the spell's effects]. All creatures to be affected by the Sleep spell must be within a 3" diameter circle. The number of creatures which can be affected is a function of their life energy levels, expressed as hit dice and hit points:
Creatures Hit Dice	Number Affected By Sleep Spell
up to 1	4-16	(4d4)
1+1 to 2	2-8	(2d4)
2+1 to 3	1-4	(1d4)
3+1 to 4	1-2	(½d4, round off)
4+1 to 4+4	0-1	(d4, 3 or 4)
The area of effect is determined by the range and area centre decided upon by the spell caster. Slapping or wounding will awaken affected creatures, but noise will not do so. Awakening requires 1 complete melee round. Note that sleeping creatures can be slain automatically at a rate of 1 per slayer per melee round. The material component for this spell is a pinch of fine sand, rose petals, or a live cricket.

 
Spider Climb (Alteration)
Level: 1	Components: V, S, M	Range: Touch	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: 1 round + 1 round/level	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: Creature touched
Explanation/Description: A Spider Climb spell enables the recipient to climb and travel upon vertical surfaces just as a giant spider is able to do, i.e. at 3" movement rate, or even hang upside down from ceilings. Note that the affected creature must have bare hands and feet in order to climb in this manner. During the course of the spell the recipient cannot handle objects which weigh less than 50 g.p., for such objects will stick to the creature's hands/feet, so a magic-user will find it virtually impossible to cast spells if under a Spider Climb dweomer. The material components of this spell are a drop of bitumen and a live spider, both of which must be eaten by the spell recipient.
 
Tenser's Floating Disc (Evocation)
Level: 1	Components: V, S, M	Range: 2"	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: 3 turns + 1 turn/level	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: Special
Explanation/Description: With this spell, the caster creates the circular plane of null-gravity known as Tenser's Floating Disc after the famed wizard of that appellation (whose ability to locate treasure and his greed to recover every copper found are well known). The disc is concave, 3' in diameter, and holds 1,000 g.p. weight per level of the magic-user casting the spell. The disc floats at approximately 3' above the ground at all times and remains level likewise. It maintains a constant interval of 6' between itself and the magic-user if unbidden. It will otherwise move within its range, as well as along with him at a rate of 6", at the command of the magic-user. If the spell caster moves beyond range, or if the spell duration expires, the floating disc winks out of existence and whatever it was supporting is precipitated to the surface beneath it. The material component of the spell is a drop of mercury.
 
Unseen Servant (Conjuration/Summoning)
Level: 1	Components: V, S, M	Range: 0	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: 6 turns + 1 turn/level	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: 3" radius of spell caster
Explanation/Description: The Unseen Servant is a non-visible valet, a butler to step and fetch, open doors and hold chairs, as well as to clean and mend. The spell creates a force which is not strong, but which obeys the command of the magic-user. It can carry only light-weight items - a maximum of 200 gold pieces weight suspended, twice that amount moving across a relatively friction-free surface such as a smooth stone or wood floor. It can only open normal doors, drawers, lids, etc. The Unseen Servant cannot fight nor can it be killed, as it is a force rather than a creature. It can be magically dispelled, or eliminated after taking 6 hit points of magical damage. The material components of the spell are a piece of string and a bit of wood.
 
Ventriloquism (Illusion/Phantasm)
Level: 1	Components: V, M	Range: 1"/level, maximum 6"	Casting Time: 1 segment	Duration: 2 rounds + 1 round/level	Saving Throw: None	Area of Effect: One object
Explanation/Description: This spell enables the magic-user to make it sound as if his or her voice - or someone's voice or similar sound - is issuing from someplace else, such as from another creature, a statue, from behind a door, down a passage, etc. The spell caster is able to make his or her voice sound as if a different creature were speaking or making the noise; of course, in a language known by him or her, or a sound which the caster can normally make. With respect to such voices and sounds, there is a 10% chance per point of intelligence above 12 of the hearer that the ruse will be recognized. The material component of the spell is a small cone of parchment.
 
Write (Evocation)
Level: 1	Components: V, S, M	Range: 0	Casting Time: 1 round	Duration: 1 hour/level	Saving Throw: Special	Area of Effect: One magical spell inscription
Explanation/Description: By means of this spell a magic-user might be able to inscribe a spell to make a magical scroll he or she cannot understand at the time (due to level or lack of sufficient intelligence) into the tome or other compilation he or she employs to maintain a library of spells. The magic-user must make a saving throw versus magic to attempt the writing of any spell, +2 if it is only up to 1 level greater than he or she currently uses, 0 at 2 levels higher, and -1 per level from 3 levels higher onwards. If this throw fails, the magic user is subject to 1d4 of damage for every level of the spell he or she was attempting to transcribe into his or her magic book, and furthermore be knocked unconscious for a like number of turns. This damage, if not fatal, can only be healed at the rate of 1-4 points per day, as it is damage to psyche and body. Furthermore, a spell will take 1 hour per level to transcribe in this fashion, and during this period, the magic-user is in a trance state and can always be surprised by any foe. In addition to the writing surface upon which the spell is to be transcribed, the spell caster needs a fine ink composed of rare substances (minimum cost 200 g.p. per bottle, if available at all without manufacture by the magic user).